An efficient method to implement two stacks in a single
array is to start two stacks from the two ends
of the array. Stack1 from left most end and stack2
from right most end
So two stacks grow in opposite directions
So initially top1 will be -1 and top2
will be size.
Hence the empty case of stack1
is when top1 is equal to -1
and the empty case for stack2 is when top2
is equal to size.
So what will be the stack full case? In this
case, Stack is full when top1 and top2
are in adjacent positions.
And in this case either of the stack won't grow.
So the stack full case we need to check top1
and top2 indices are adjacent
We can do that in two ways
The first method is by checking top2's
previous index is top1 that is top1 equal to
top2-1 or we can check top1's
next index is top2.
That is top1 + 1equal to top2
So using this, you can implement the stack efficiently.